So I am gonna go ahead and show you guys
really quickly how Doppler works now that
you guys have gotten access to it.
I'm gonna log into my personal account, so
you'll notice here I
really use Doppler a lot.
As a matter of fact, you can see
that same naming convention and
structure that we've already talked about.
Where if I go into Doppler and I'm like,
okay, I want a specific network's secrets,
right, I can just type in network and
then there we go.
I can look at
alt4llc-pulumi-network secrets.
I can look at terraform-network secrets.
And so this is one of the first things
that I really like about Doppler.
Which is that, again,
it enables me to have this
isolation per service, per person.
And what you'll notice as well is that if
I go down here, not only do I have one for
services, but I even have one for
myself, Right?
This makes my environment variables for
my development environment
completely portable.
If you look here, you'll see that
I have something called NixOS.
Now, the cool thing
isn't that I use NixOS.
The cool thing is that this
is a configuration just for
that operating system,
just for that computer, right?
So say, if you're a developer who has
multiple computers, maybe you have a work
machine and a personal machine, you can
even separate your configs based off of
your own problems that you're
trying to solve, right?
So for example, at Hippo, where is it?
At Hippo,
my username is actually ereinert, right?
And so basically what I did is I said
anything that's in the ereinert workspace
is work related and anything in the
erikreinert workspace is personal, right?
This is tough,
this alone is tough to do with dot ends.
You're copying files, you're pasting
files, removing them from multiple places.
This really solves that problem.
The first way it solves it by doing
it as if you click on this and
then you click on this,
here's all your secrets.
And it's simple, anybody could look
at this and realize what's going on.
It's really easy to use.
There's a lot of really
cool features with it.
It has a version built into it, so
every single one of these keys is version.
If you change that key, you'll know.
And not only that, but
let's do something else.
Let's go to projects really quickly
Let's go to alt4llc-pulumi-bucket.
Look at this.
Thank God those were,
[LAUGH] I was a little worried that I
thought those were secrets for a second.
But what's another thing that's really
nice about Dopplers is you can use
variables with Doppler.
So say for example,
I wanna config for a specific thing,
but I don't wanna have to
update it in tons of places.
So with Doppler, what you can do is
as you'll see here, it's referencing
erikreinert_nixos_AWS_ACCESS_ KEY,
which technically means when I provision
a bucket, I'm just provisoning it with
my own personal access keys, right?
But that means that when I'm doing it
locally, I can still use the same keys and
everything but it's in a different repo.
However, if eventually I get to a point,
now this is, again, you might be,
why are you doing that?
Why would you put your
personal secrets in that?
Hold on.
So the main reason why this is really
powerful is, is in the future,
if you want to then rotate out and
make specific ones, remember, we had that
question earlier about how do you manage
permissions for each Terraform workspace?
This is a way you could do it.
Where you could say, all right, I'm gonna
have global access with a specific set of
secrets and then I'm gonna create
workspaces with their own secrets.
And on top of that,
you can also rotate secrets.
So this is another thing that's
really difficult, right?
How do you rotate secrets?
There's a bunch of different
ways of doing that.
And again, this is another reason why
I didn't go heavily down the secrets
road in this course.
It's because there's a lot of different
things that you can achieve and
a lot of different approaches you can
take to using and implementing secrets.
Why I like Doppler is because Doppler
kind of goes, all right, well,
you've got everything here.
So if you wanna rotate,
we can rotate for you, right?
And so that's what it can even do is
you can then add a rotated secret,
which will then have its own rotation
pattern and things like that.
And it'll get updated automatically.
And what's nice about that is is these
rotated secrets can also be used with
cloud providers.
So if you wanna rotate secrets in a cloud
provider, say Amazon or something like
that, this can go out to Amazon create
equivalent secrets in secrets manager or
something like that and then it auto
syncs the to whenever you make changes.
So if I was a developer and I wanted to
have a more abstracted configuration,
I could move all of my configs to Doppler,
have developers update here and
then just redeploy those changes, right?
Now their interface
isn't even git any more.
Now it's this really pretty interface.
However, does this pretty interface
help us is the question, right?
Now thankfully they do have auditing and
things like that, right,
I'm not gonna go to it cuz I
think it actually shows secrets.
But if I went to logs, I would see
an audit log of what was changed,
when it was changed, and
who it was changed by.
And not only that, but
I can even revert that.
So, going all the way back to the first
part of the, this is why it was so
important to have those conversations
about how to make these decisions, right?
Because this is actually really powerful,
if you look at what problem
it's trying to solve.
Now, could this work with
production secrets and services?
Yeah, it actually could, you would
just have to basically run this and
tell this to run your service, right?
But you could encapsulate
all of your secrets and
everything into Doppler
with that approach.
I'm gonna go to projects.
And for starters I'm just gonna
say I'm gonna go to erikreinert,
I'm gonna go to nixos, and
I'm gonna add my AWS_ACCESS_ KEY_ID,
DEFAULT_REGION and SECRET_ACCESS_KEY.
So I wanted to make sure I
can access Amazon, right?
So after I've done that I'm gonna go
ahead and open up my Terminal and then,
in my Terminal,
I keep forgetting I have my keyboard,
I'm gonna make sure I have Doppler,
all right?
So I'll just make sure I have Doppler,
I don't need to update, cool.
Okay.
So now what I wanna do is I wanna actually
see if my credentials
are injecting properly.
So let's do this first, aws s3 ls.
That should fail.
In a minute, yeah, it failed.
So now let's try the same approach but
with Doppler.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna say doppler run == config.
The config in this case is nixos.
And then the project is my name.
And I'm gonna do one last thing and
this is a shell thing
which is I'm going to indirect
into the next command.
Now what happens is when I
run this Doppler runs first,
goes out to Doppler finds my secrets.
Then creates a shell with those
secrets injected inside of it.
Now, again, if I do aws s3 ls,
it's not gonna work.
But if I do it this way Doppler is
creating a shell with those secrets
inside it for that specific execution.
Meaning that now I can actually access
things, I don't have to have secrets
locally, I'd have to be worried
about which directory I'm in or
what I'm trying to authenticate with.
I can just literally inject my
secrets in when I want to and
get access to whatever I need.
So this is one of the reasons
why we're gonna need Doppler.
Is because Doppler is what's going
to take control of all the secrets
we create here so
that you guys know where they are.
You guys know how to interface with them.
And you guys also know where
you can change them if need be.
Any questions on Doppler?
Does everyone have it installed
at least in setup now?
You good now?
Cool.
Okay, so do me a favor really quickly.
And if you haven't already go
to projects up at the top and
create a new project for me.
And I'm gonna just reuse my own, but
I would recommend just using your name,
just for now we'll just consider
this your dev environment, right?
So in my case, I would type in,
erikreinert, and
then give an example
like my personal project.
My personal project ends right and
then click Create Project.
Once you do that,
you'll get sent to the project's page.
And you might have defaults here.
And as a matter of fact here, I'll just
go through the process really quickly.
So here example project.
Something fun, create.
So Doppler does try and assume they might
know what you have out of the gate and
so they give you
a development environment and
a production environment also to just
kind of show you how things work, right?
Now if I was to use these with
my AWS CLI wouldn't work, right,
cuz I haven't actually added any
secrets yet or anything like that.
But this at least makes it so
that if I had a dev environment and
a prod environment,
I could make sure that I already am
separating those two the way I need.
And then yeah,
this is really all we need so far.
Yeah, go ahead.
>> Now, mine gave me dev stage and
production.
>> Okay.
So if it did that, got you, so
if it did that,
that means that I overrode my settings.
There's a button here that says
default environments on the right.
Now, I don't use staging.
I just go from dev to prod,
at least personally.
So I got rid of staging for that example.
But if you had other names,
other environments, things like that,
you could do that.
So if you wanna have it like mine,
you go into Default Environments at
the top, and then I think you would
just delete whichever one is in
there that you want to delete.
And for example, this is another
common one, production, right?
What do you call prod?
Is it prod, is it production, right?
This also can give you opportunities.
Is it dev?
Is it develop, right?
To be fair, we call it dev and prod,
that's why I have it the way I do.
But yeah, all we wanna achieve right
now is just make sure we've got Doppler
set up and we have a project
created with at least one config.
Now, again,
if you wanna rename the config,
you can actually click on these little
three dots here and type in rename, and
then you give it the name
as well as the slug.
The slug is what we use in our Command,
right?
So this NixOS is the slug from here,
So if I wanted to go to staging or
something else I would say okay, well,
project, project, config, config.
Now I apologize I have this incredible
OCD when it comes to proper alphabetical.
So technically, you'd probably
wanna type it more like this so
that it makes sense, right?
So your project in this
case would be erikreinert.
And then your config in
this case would be nixos.
Or if it was something else,
it'd be like dev, right?
And another thing that's
really nice about this too is,
say you are working on a service,
like example=service, right?
Well, you can run this in
the example service repository.
But then later on, you can run
against another project, right?
And there's no need for these secrets to
be on your system or anything like that.
Cool.
So yeah,
just make sure to give it some kind
of name that makes sense to you.
And again, at least for this project,
we're not gonna use any
other environments for now.